Hi.
This is Kevin Jones from Pluralsight.
In this module, we're going to take a look at Java Server Pages.
We're going to cover the various aspects of JavaServer Pages.
We want to look at and understand the syntax of the page.
We want to look at how we include other pages
dynamically within a JavaServer Page.
We want to look at how we include other static resources within the page,
which may include other HTML resources.
We'll take a look at the use of scripts and scriptlets on the page.
We'll look at how we use directives on the page.
And we'll also look at how we can configure the page within the application.
Before we get into the details of amending a JavaServer Page,
we'll just take a look at what a JavaServer Page actually is.
We have one open here inside the editor inside IntelliJ IDEA,
and we can see essentially this thing is just an HTML page,
obviously there's slightly more to it than that.
Within this page we have some HTML,
we have some CSS and a little bit of JavaScript.
It's a Bootstrap-based page, and with all the rage for Bootstrap at the moment,
I felt we had to do that.
If we take this project and deploy it,
if we then go to Chrome and browse the page,
if I want to browse to index.jsp, we'll see the page here.
So here we can see the output from the JavaServer Page.
Now obviously as this is a JSP there's some processing that goes
on under the covers to generate this output.
And in fact the JavaServer Page is compiled, and it's compiled into a servlet.
And by using Tomcat, we can actually see that server code.
So if we go to Tomcat's work directory, see here we're in work,
Catalina, localhost, simple, in org, apache,
jsp.
Here's the class that's created for this page, so index.jsp .class.
And here's the Java code that gets compiled to that class.
If I take that Java code and just drag it into IntelliJ IDEA,
we can see what that JSP code looks like.
Here we can see that our code extends a class called HttpJspBase,
and this is part of Tomcat.
And in fact HttpJspBase extends HttpServlet.
So we know that anything that extends HttpServlet is itself a servlet.
The code here follows the same lifecycle as a standard servlet.
So we have an init method, we have a destroy method,
and we have a service method.
And it's this service method that does all the work.
In the service method,
we can see some initialization code where it goes and gets
things that sets the content type on the output.
It then gets a reference to an output stream through pageContext.getOut,
and it uses that output stream to write out any
static data that is part of the page.
So in the index page where we can see things like
HTML and head and header and nav, if we look in the Java code for this,
sure enough we can see there's the DOCTYPE being written out,
there's the header being written out, there's the nav being written out.
So it simply writes out the HTML.
As we'll see later, we can embed script into the page.
We can embed Java into the page.
If there was Java on this page, then that Java would be executed as part of the servlet.